CD Track
1Let's Play One On this track we have decided to start with brushes, as it seems to fit the mood and the tempo so well. You could also try playing the tune with sticks. Entire books have been written about playing with brushes, but here is some basic information to get you going:
Motion, as with the ride cymbal, is key to playing a swinging, relaxed time feel Practice playing a smooth lega- to sweep very lightly on the drum head with no pulse or accent: Next, add quarter notes with the right hand: Be sure the time is fluid sounding: Here is a basic pattern that will work with this tune:
RH Start Here
2 4
1,a,3,a
LH Start Here
Here are four points to focus on:
1. Relax and work on a fluid graceful motion with the brush_
2 . Keep your motion more horizontal than vertical_
3. Feel the triplet subdivision under the quarter-note pulse
4. Let the brush rest lightly against the head, and avoid pushing it into the head except for effects:
It is very important for the drummer to know exactly where helshe is in the musical form, otherwise the drum- ming can sound random and unmusical. The drummer'$ playing should always outline and support the form_ One simple way to outline the structure is to play a small fill at the end of the form. In this tune; the form is 12 bars long, SO try playing a light fill at the end of bar 12. Use some of the turnaround figures from the previous section.
During the bass solo, you might want to change textures by playing the ride pattern on the closed hi-hat with a brush: You also might try riding on a cymbal with a brush.
During the drum trades, realize that the 12-bar blues form continues while you are playing the trades:
For this song, we have provided you with a lead sheet, a full drum chart, and an abbreviated drum chart: On a real gig, you might see any of these three options, or no chart at all: It is important for the drummer to be able to understand the form of the song and perform it accurately from any of these different charts_ The full drum chart will only be provided for the first two songs in this book, after which the lead sheet and abbreviated drum chart will be provided_