Bass Drum: Feathering for the Choruses of Guitar Solo Feathering is playing the bass drum on straight quarter notes atan extremely quiet dynamic This articulation should fall underneath each of the other drumset voices. This technique was developed to add an attack and punch to the jazz upright-bass walking feel. The feathered bass drum should be "felt but not heard" If you can hear the bass drum, it is too loud.
In order to achieve this sound; use the felt side of the beater and choke up on the pedal by placing your toes just behind the chain (or strap) of the footboard: Do not bring the beater back too far as it will make the stroke too loud. The beater should only come back about to 1-1/2 inches from the head. Ex. 6.10 (right)
Important: You will e only feather the bass drum during the choruses of guitar solo.
The bass drum strikes exactly with the ride cymbal on counts 1,2,3 and 4 The bass drum, hi-hat; and ride cymbal strike together on counts 2 and 4. You may want to record yourself playing this pattern to make sure that none of the voices are flamming: Ex 6.11
Comping Comping is short for"accompanying" Comping is how the rhythm section instruments, such as piano, guitar; and drums, support both the head (melody) and the soloist (choruses of solo) In each section of the form, comping takes on a different role. Let's take a look at both variations:
Comping the Head During the head,the drums support the melody line by accompanying and accentuating notes within each phrase. These can be accented by either the snare drum or bass drum. However; the ride cymbal pattern and foot hi-hat must keep their patterns unchanged For this reason, it is very important to develop the proper independence to keep the ride and hi-hat going while playing various accents with the snare and/or bass drum:
Let's take a look at bars 1-4 from both the head and drumset chart You will notice that the bass drum and snare drum comp the written guitar melody, with the ride and hi-hat unchanged: For example: Ex 6.12 GI #
Important: For this unit; the bass drum does not feather during the head (melody)
56 Drum Performance 2