Dog Performance Notes This tune was originally recorded in 2000 for Conrad Schrenk's album: This tune boasts a host of different time signatures, tempo- changes; heavy; high energy playing throughout, challenging unison double kick-drum parts and tricky kicks and hits with the band  It's a full-on assault on the drums on many levels. Fast single-stroke fills around the kit; cross-sticking patterns, double- and single-stroke rolls on double kick-drums, and s0 on; relentless, driving beats it's a lot of fun to playl
The song starts with a 7/4-9/4 cycle of heavily syncopated accents worked into a groove: / am playing this groove on my second (12") snare so that this intro section has a different overall sound than the following main groove; which is the double-time beat with backbeats on the main (14") snare drum: Make sure to really hit that pushed "1 at the end of every second bar with a decent amount of aggression;
In the first verse (the cycle of 7/4 and 9/4) | am back on the 12" snare for some contrast in snare-timbre. The main double-time groove breaks up the verse nicely after four bars. After the second verse pattern it goes straight to a 5/8 section. This section is the bridge. [ am playing the 5/8 section as a 10/8 phrase to lengthen the cycle and to make it feel more "half-time_ This creates a nice contrast to the following "4 on the floor" section: There am playing quarter-notes on the kick and 32nd-note double-strokes on two hi-hats. The last bar of this "build-up" is a 5/4 bar just to make the next "1" a little more unexpected!
The chorus section follows. This is all about keeping time and driving the band: play straight through until the last two bars, which contain a double-kick cross-sticking barrage that leads into a two-bar breakdown of just guitar
Then the 7/4-9/4 verse and the 10/8 bridge follow; leading into another chorus. Here its all 4/4 for the second time; driving the band and pushing the time a little by playing slightly ahead of the beat  With another big drum fill lead into the second breakdown: After a 2-bar build up of tension the band kicks in on the 1 for the guitar solo. This section is quite unusual. | am playing very straight time with my hands, trying to guide the band through the busy guitar solo, but at the same time | am playing most of the guitar solo in unison on the kick drum: This is a very unusual thing to do. Conrad asked me in the studio to keep time but phrase along with the solo with my feet  He gave me the chart and said: "that's what | play rhythmically in the solo, please play it in unison but keep time with your hands for the band: Start establishing a groove for four bars and then really get into unison mode with the feet: Occasionally please orchestrate certain sections on the toms; like 8th-note triplets and quarter-note triplets, okay?"
just had to laugh and said: "Unison? Isn't that a rare species of horse with a long pointy horn or something?" _
Anyways, so the guitar solo is the real killer in this song: It's hard to play those guitar phrases in unison in a "blase" sort of way in order to keep that relaxed feel with the hands going:
The guitar solo ends with a 16th-note unison pattern which | play on the kick drum: That leads into the coda, which is a four-bar 16th- note run orchestrated on snare and all toms, incorporating a couple of cross-stickings. After the full-note kicks, fill the last bar with a manic, double-kick cross-sticking 16th-note fill to "finish on a high note"
NOTATION KEY
open hi-hat
China or crash jingle hats X-hat
ride
] toms snare hi-hat bass drums w/ foot